Aggregate function & grouping docs (#1385)
brimsec/zq: zql/docs/grouping/README.md

# Grouping

All [aggregate functions](../aggregate-functions/README.md) may be invoked with

> one or more _grouping_ options that define the batches of events on which they
> operate. If explicit grouping is not used, an aggregate function will operate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one or more _grouping_ options that partition the input stream into batches that are aggregated separately. If explicit grouping is not used, an aggregate function will operate
```

over all events in the input stream.

Below you will find details regarding the available grouping mechanisms and
tips for their effective use.

- [Time Grouping - `every`](#time-grouping---every)
- [Value Grouping - `by`](#value-grouping---by)
- [Note: Undefined Order](#note-undefined-order)

# Time Grouping - `every`

To create batches of events that are close together in time, specify
`every <duration>` before invoking your aggregate function(s).

The `<duration>` may be expressed in any of the following units of time. A
numeric value may also precede the unit specification, in which case any of
the shorthand variations may also be used.

| **Unit**  | **Plural shorthand (optional)**   |
|-----------|-----------------------------------|
| `second`  | `seconds`, `secs`, `sec`, `s`     |
| `minute`  | `minutes`, `mins`, `min`, `m`     |
| `hour`    | `hours`, `hrs`, `hr`, `h`         |
| `day`     | `days`, `d`                       |
| `week`    | `weeks`, `wks`, `wk`, `w`         |

#### Example #1:

To see the total number of bytes originated across all connections during each
minute:

```zq-command

> zq -f table 'every minute sum(orig_bytes) | sort -r ts' conn.log.gz

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful to explain that `every X` is just syntactic sugar for `by Time.trunc(ts, X)`.

Author: @henridf and I discussed this suggestion offline and I'm inclined to leave it out for now. Concepts like syntactic sugar (whether we go with that phrasing or try to come up with alternate words) feels a bit deeper than we're trying to go for the audience I have in mind for the current ZQL docs. I expect at some point we may have alternate/supplemental docs for users that come from a programming or data science background, and I suspect that's when it'll become helpful to expose things like this as well as other implementation details. I'll leave this comment "unresolved" in the event that users do happen to come across this closed PR, though.

1521912840.000000 4704644
1521912780.000000 10189155
...
```

#### Example #2:

To see which 30-second intervals contained the most events:

```zq-command
zq -f table 'every 30sec count() | sort -r count' *.log.gz
```

#### Output:
```zq-output head:4
TS                COUNT
1521911940.000000 73512
1521911790.000000 59701
1521912000.000000 51229
...
```

# Value Grouping - `by`

To create batches of events based on the values of fields or the results of
[expressions](../expressions/README.md), specify
`by <field-name | name=expression> [, <field-name | name=expression> ...]`
after invoking your aggregate function(s).

#### Example #1:

The simplest example creates batches based on the values found in a single
field. To see the most commonly encountered Zeek `weird` events in our sample
data:

```zq-command
zq -f table 'count() by name | sort -r' weird.log.gz
```

#### Output:
```zq-output head:5
NAME                                        COUNT
bad_HTTP_request                            11777
line_terminated_with_single_CR              11734
unknown_HTTP_method                         140
above_hole_data_without_any_acks            107
...
```

#### Example #2:

> By specifying multiple comma-separated field names, batches are formed for each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By specifying multiple comma-separated field names, one batch is formed for each
```
